Improve LoRa Cloud integration docs (#407)
TheThingsIndustries/lorawan-stack-docs: doc/content/integrations/lora-cloud/das.md

---
title: "LoRa Cloud Device & Application Services"
description: ""
---

> [LoRa Cloud™ Device & Application Services](https://www.loracloud.com/portal/device_management/home) comprise a set of full life-cycle management features for LoRaWAN®-based devices, which are intended to simplify the development of managed LoRaWAN endpoint solutions.

Reviewer: We don't have to put (R) on LoRaWAN in documentation content. We usually do that once, on the landing page or something, but we don't have to bother with documentation content

Reviewer: Same for LoRa Edge BTW, only (TM) the first use

<!--more-->

LoRa Cloud Device & Application Services protocol lets you manage common device functionality at the application layer for all LoRa-based devices, and manage geolocation for modem-based devices (like [LoRa Edge™ LR1110 Solution](https://www.loracloud.com/documentation/device_management?url=overview.html#lora-edge-lr1110-solution)). These services also provide protocols for reliable application data reception from all Semtech's LoRaWAN-compatible devices, with efficient techniques to fight against packet loss. 

> {{< note >}} In general, LoRa Cloud Device & Application Services do not interact directly with network servers to retrieve uplinks or schedule downlinks, so it is usually client's responsibility to forward uplinks and schedule downlinks as a part of the response.

Reviewer: I don't fully understand this. Who is the "client"?

Should we say that the user should configure the integration to enable LoRa Cloud Device & Application Services?

However, when it comes to geolocation for modem-based devices, {{% tts %}} integration with LoRa Cloud Device & Application Services eliminates this need, i.e. it queries the protocol engine on LoRa Cloud in order to retrieve the response. This way, after the integration is configured and the uplink message containing scanning result is sent from the device, the user only has to monitor results in {{% tts %}}. {{</ note >}}

## LoRa Cloud Setup

On the [LoRa Cloud portal](https://www.loracloud.com/portal), navigate to **LoRa Cloud Device & Application Services**.

{{< figure src="../das.png" alt="LoRa Cloud Device & Application Services" >}}

> Choose **MANAGE DEVICES** on the left hand menu and click the **AD DEVICES** button. To add a device, you only need to provide its EUI as shown on the image below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose **MANAGE DEVICES** on the left hand menu and click the **ADD DEVICES** button. To add a device, you only need to provide its EUI as shown on the image below.
```

We can probably remove the all caps, up to you

{{< figure src="../add-device.png" alt="Adding a new device" >}}

Next, choose **MANAGE TOKENS** on the left hand menu. Click the **CREATE NEW TOKEN** button.

> Give the name to your token and tick the boxes to allow all listed permissions. Click the **CREATE NEW TOKEN** button to finish.

Author: I wasn't sure about this and didn't want to spend too much time on discovering. I'm also explaining how to issue device requests from LoRa Cloud below, so I just assumed that some additional permissions are needed. I'll just add a note that one can decide to restrict permissions

{{< figure src="../token-creation.png" alt="Creating a token" >}}

## Configure Device & Application Services Integration

To setup LoRa Cloud Device & Application Services integration, navigate to your application in {{% tts %}}.

On the left hand menu, select **Integrations &#8594; LoRa Cloud**. Click the **Expand** button next to the **Device & Application Services**.

Next, copy the token you previously created in LoRa Cloud Device & Application Services portal.

{{< figure src="../copy-token.png" alt="Copy the token from LoRa Cloud" >}}

Paste the token in the **Token** field under the **Set LoRa Cloud token** section and tick the box under **LR1110 demo encoding** to enable it. Finish by clicking the **Set token** button.

{{< figure src="../paste-token.png" alt="Paste the token in The Things Stack" >}}

## Obtain Location Solutions 

> In general, location of the device can be estimated using Wi-Fi, assisted GNSS and autonomous GNSS scans. This section will show you how to obtain the location estimates using Wi-Fi and assisted GNSS scans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For LoRa Edge capable devices, location of the device can be estimated using Wi-Fi, assisted GNSS and autonomous GNSS scans. This section will show you how to obtain the location estimates using Wi-Fi and assisted GNSS scans.
```

Reviewer: Maybe also add a note here that this is NOT LoRa Cloud Geolocation, with a reference to Geolocation, if they look for RSSI/TDOA solutions?
